---
layout: project
title: MAE 4300
description: Class Summary
technologies: [MATLAB, python]
image: /assets/images/function-graph.png
---

This class centered around an ethical analysis of the Boeing 737 Max disasters and how they could have been prevented. We discussed the ASME Canons and how the health and safety of the public should be held paramount over any exterior factors when considering implementation of a new engineering design or system. We discussed how the entanglement of factors such as regulatory structure, financial pressures, company hierarchy, key stakeholders, and ethical principles eventually contributed to the two deadly crashes. For instance, we posed key ethical questions such as: whether Boeing upper level management should have grounded the 737 Max after the first crash, whether the MCAS system should have been understated to minimize training requirements, whether the 737 Max development process should have been rushed to meet competitive pressure from Airbus, whether Boeing senior engineers should have modified the design after simulation test pilots experienced “catastrophic failure,” and whether Boeing’s internal regulators should have approved the MCAS design. We answered these ethical dilemmas using the ASME canons, and we outlined how Boeing’s poor response to these questions was responsible for the crash. 
The answers that we provided to the ethical questions were idealized responses, so to understand the full context of the situation, we considered real world constraints that could possibly have excused some of Boeing’s actions. 
Following the 737 Max case study was very interesting to me as it showed that issues are often not black and white, and in reality are complicated and multi-layered. Knowledge of this case study will be useful as I enter the workforce, as I will acknowledge my role as an entry level engineer in posing safety questions to management. 



